# Chemcalc

## https://met.azurewebsites.net/
In metallurgical research and process development many times there is need for repetetive fitting calculations to describe observed phenomena. Leaching (metal dissolution by use of chemicals) kinetic data for example, over different temperatures can be fitted to different Shrinking Core Models, all derived from first principle mathematical treatments by allowing for simplifying assumptions.Resin isotherm data can be fit into different linearised versions of either of Langmuir, BET or Freundlich isotherms. The objective of such treatment of observed data is to allow the researcher to understand the nature of underlying reaction mechanisms or so called reaction pathways. Certain important parameters that can be important for scaling up or design purposes are also identfied from these fitted models. 

Sometimes, however, researchers identify reactions whose data fail to conform to any of the exisiting mathematical models, leading to one or more "versions" of the classical models. Mathematical models, by nature are dependant on simplifying assumptions that may or may not hold in practice. When models fail to satisfy observed phenomena, researchers improve on them by making new assumptions, qualifying old assumptions, generating improved models and then fitting their data, hopefully generating new and useful models to describe their systems. The effect of this is that there is a growing number of models in the scientific community that any new data has to be checked against. 

This is were this project comes in, to assist the researcher with the process of fitting their data to these numerous models, or to their own derived new models. The researcher need not use too much of their time searching for or manipulating data to fit these models. This project is an attempt to develop such a tool to allow the researcher to feed data, select candidate models according to their expectations and get models ranked in terms of best fit. Curretly focus is on deploying an MVP with just a few Shrinking Core models for fluid/particle reactions (mainly applied to leaching in my field). Up next is fitting adsorption data to the 3 mentioned adsorption models and then cereating functionality for user defined models. 
